# DWIS Testing Procedures 

# Scraping



# Interpolation
We are implementing two interpolation methods: Nearest neighbor, and inverse linear distance. These two methods will be implemented in Java by pulling our scraped data out of Prometheus, processing it, and then returning a new continuous data set back. From there Grafana will take over in the dashboard generated from the Java program. 

We can unit test our interpolation methods by inserting dummy data that we know what the outcome should be provided our program runs as expected. For the nearest neighbor algorithm, the values that will need unit testing are the results of our distance calculations (which finds the distance between GPS coordinates), and the station ID being returned. 

The inverse linear distance interpolation method will require similar unit tests on its distance functions, however it differs from nearest neighbor in that it calculates weighted averages and applies that to the incoming weather data. This method will also need to export its own data to prometheus likely in the form of a csv file so that our display software (Grafana) can collect and present it. 

As of now, we only have the nearest neighbor interpolation at a state it can be tested. To verify that it works, a developer can run the project for unit testing and choose new coordinates to find the closest station. The file "locations.csv" in the DemoData file has the master list of all the stations and their coordinates that can be used to set the value to test against and act as a reference to manually verify the correctness of the algorithm. 




# Grafana
We will be using Grafana to display the data in the dashboard generated by the Java program. A simple eye test works here as we will be able to see whether or not the dashboard is displaying the accurate data. If it is not displaying the accurate data, we would have to check how we are interfacing with Prometheus.  

In order to request data from Grafana, we will have to submit query statements to Prometheus to get the requested data, and we will most likely need to create our own statements in Prometheus as well. Receiving incorrect data in Grafana would suggest that our query statements to Prometheus have some sort of error in them. This way, it is much easier to error-test and handle due to the fact that it should be easier to diagnose the problem.



